---
layout: post
title: What UFOs Are Not: Foreign Technology
---

The UFOs that the government now admits they have documented ("objects in the sky that go _zip_", _not_ UFOs with little green men aboard) are extremely unlikely to be foreign technology. Here’s why:

1.  **USA — we’re number 1!** Well, actually in terms of any category you want to consider, we’re typically wayyyyy down the list from number 1. (Unless it’s bad things, of course.) But not military technology! (Though you might consider this a bad thing…) In military technology were pretty close to if not clearly number 1. Number 1 is what we get by pissing out _700+ billion_ dollars a year on military spending. If it were at all possible to be doing the things those UFOs are doing, we’d be the ones who had the machines capable of doing it, not some foreign military. But the one thing the UFO report will be clear on when it is released in a couple of weeks is that these UFOs ain’t ours.
2.  **Or at least our military tech would be in the ballpark.** The thing is even if we weren’t number 1 in military tech, we wash so much fucking money down that drain that we would be _close_. If another government _is_ behind the UFOs, our military would at least have something like the UFOs on the drawing board. It would be within the realm of speculation. But the only tech we have that even comes close to what the UFOs are doing is the still very future-tech hypersonic missile. Those fuckers _can_ go more than 8000 mph. But there is no notion, daydream, or fantasy that they could ever do the stop-on-a-dime, reverse-course, shoot-straight-up-in-the-air, dive-into-the-water, _zips_ that the UFOs have shown themselves capable of. And they are documented doing those things without a vapor trail. Our hypersonics have to burn stupid amounts of energy to get up to the speeds that the UFOs appear to casually pop to.
3.  **80 years of this stuff.** If we put the "objects in the sky that go _zip_" into the context of the 80-year history of people seeing these things, that would suggest a foreign government would not only have to possess this technology now, but would have possessed it — and kept it a secret — since WWII. Even if you only accept more recent sightings, say since the O’Hare UFO seen in 2006 by dozens of pilots going _zip_ straight up into the sky, then a foreign government would have been sitting on this super-tech for almost 20 years already.

All this taken together means a skeptic has to do somersaults to make the possibility that these things are foreign technology even plausible. If you want it in James-Cameronian terms: the top realistic technology the US is developing now is T2-level tech. What the UFOs are doing is T1000-level tech. We can’t even imagine it. So something _far_ more bizarre than a foreign government is likely behind it. Aliens? Extremely unlikely. But… _more_ likely than foreign tech, no matter what the _NY Times_ tells you. And _that_ is why this time where we can sit back and speculate is so exciting.

_Update: OK, so actually it could be foreign tech. No sooner than the government released it's [June 2021 report](https://www.dni.gov/files/ODNI/documents/assessments/Prelimary-Assessment-UAP-20210625.pdf) essentially [reinforcing the points](https://www.newyorker.com/news/daily-comment/the-unexplained-phenomena-of-the-ufo-report) I made here than I came across [this article](https://www.thedrive.com/the-war-zone/40054/adversary-drones-are-spying-on-the-u-s-and-the-pentagon-acts-like-theyre-ufos) that makes an extremely convincing case that a large portion of the UFOs could be foreign governments messing with and collecting data on US weapons systems. It's a shocking claim in its own right, made by a dude who has not shied away from reporting on the strangeness of the UFO phenomenon in the past. It still leaves a small number of reports to which my above points continue to apply._
