/home/dynohub/pCloudDrive/front-hallway/bulletin-board/writing/ufos/notOpticalIllusions.wiki
Last modified: Fri Jun 11, 2021  10:18PM

# What UFOs Are Not: Optical Illusions

OK, so they totally _could_ be an optical illusion. But they also _could_ be piloted by extra-terrestrials. The chances that they are optical illusions becomes less and less likely with every bit that gets leaked from the government. Now the likelihood of the UFOs documented by the military being optical illusions is approaching the same likelihood that they are piloted by aliens: pretty remote. I fully expect _the_ report that comes out in a couple of weeks to pretty much nip optical illusions in the bud.

Why? Because our best-trained pilots are now visually confirming objects which are also being confirmed by multiple high-tech instrument systems. When multiple systems start confirming solid objects that are also being witnessed by reliable people, the chance of an optics trick starts to diminish rapidly. I expect the biggest conclusion of the coming report to show just this.

The chance of optical illusion is further diminished by the 80-year history of people seeing exactly the same kinds of objects now being documented by the military. Until recently those objects were not confirmed by instrumentation. This leads the skeptical to state that the military's new hardware is glitchy and the UFOs are nothing more than manifestations of those glitches. But if our pilots are seeing the "glitches" with their own eyes? I think that makes it (slightly) more likely that in fact what is happening is that our fancy hardware has only recently gotten sophisticated enough to actually see these things.

And that is why we're talking about UFOs today. Our gear finally caught up with our own eyes, after 80 years.

Despite this, the skeptical are doubling-down on the "optical illusion" and "computer glitch" theories. This is because scientists are far more influenced by culture and politics than they want you to believe. For a more than a hundred years scientists didn't believe in meteorites. No matter how many farmers showed up at the institutions of the learned with strange stones they picked up in their fields after watching them fall from the sky, the scientists refused to believe that "stones from the sky" were possible.

Scientists study what is popular. They study what they can get the funding to study. They study what is reasonable to study without embarrassing their careers. You can see how these limitations create a body of work that is not in any way comprehensive or unbiased. From that uncomprehensive, biased body of work scientists pull their understanding of the world. And that's before you roll in problems with reproducibility, p-hacking, effective placebos, and publication bias. Science and empirical evidence is like democracy --- it's the best of the worst. And there's nothing wrong with that except for the attitude of scientists and so much of our culture that their opinions are unassailable.

In the case of UFOs, it is now clear that the hyper-skeptical and the empiricism-nuts have gone too far. They try _too_ hard to explain away the mysterious with conventional explanations. It is almost always _possible_ to find a conventional explanation for the strangest of things -- it's only slightly harder than finding a conspiracy-based or wildly-imaginative explanation.  

Because the skeptics have worked against UFOs for so long, it has led us to this state of marginalization of anyone who has seen a UFO. And, ironically, this is bad for the empiricists: it shuts down unbiased observation, it limits funding for research, and it alienates entire segments of the population who might be weirdos, but that doesn't mean they are blind and stupid. It also simply shuts down the imagination. No wonder no one had a vision for how to improve the world any more.

The skeptics, scientists, and hard-core empiricists might soon find that they have been blocking humanity from one of the most wildly transformative findings for 80 years. If so, science, I think, needs to take a good hard critical look at itself. How much is empiricism benefiting us if it delayed our realization of the significance of UFOs? And that remains true in _any_ situation that the finding about what UFOs are turns out to be astounding. It does not have to be extra-terrestrials by any means. 






